Update README.md (#169)
opensafely/pharmacy-first: README.md

- `analysis/measures_definition_pf_condition_provider.py`: Tracks prescribing activity by provider (GP vs OpenSAFELY) and condition.
- `analysis/measures_definition_pf_descriptive_stats.py`: Generates descriptive statistics for the study population, including completeness of Pharmacy First consultations.
- `analysis/measures_definition_pf_med_counts.py`: Defines measures to calculate medication-specific prescribing counts under the Pharmacy First service.
- `analysis/pf_dataset.py`: Contains functions which are called in `dataset_definition_tables.py` that allows for variables such as IMD, ethnicity and age band to be retrieved.
- `analysis/pf_variables_library.py`: Contains reusable event selection and filtering functions to build variables dynamically in other scripts.
- `test_dataset_definition_tables.py`: Unit tests for checking table generation logic and structure.
- `analysis/tidy_measures_med_counts.R`: R script to process and tidy the output of `measures_definition_pf_med_counts.py` for reporting.

---

> ## Key Library Files (`lib/`)
> 
> - `reference/vmp_vtm_lookup.csv`: Maps Virtual Medicinal Product codes (VMPs) to Virtual Therapeutic Moiety codes (VTMs) to support aggregated prescribing analysis.
> - `validation/data/pf_consultation_validation_data.csv`: Validation data taken from NHS BSA containing Pharmacy First consultation counts by condition.
> - `validation/data/pf_consultation_validation_data_by_region.csv`: Validation data taken from NHS BSA containing Pharmacy First consultation counts by condition and by region.
> - `validation/data/pf_medication_validation_data.csv`: Validation data taken from NHS BSA containing counts of Medication prescribed in Pharmacy First clinical pathways.
> 
> ## Library Functions (`lib/functions/`)
> 
> - `combine_os_nhsbsa_validation_data.R`: Combines data from OpenSAFELY and NHSBSA for cross-validation of consultation and prescribing metrics.
> - `create_tables.R`: Contains functions to generate formatted tables for `create_results_manuscript.Rmd` and `pharmacy_first_report.Rmd`.
> - `get_pf_consultation_validation_data.R`: Extracts validation metrics for Pharmacy First consultations to generate `validation/data/pf_consultation_validation_data.csv` and `validation/data/pf_consultation_validation_data_by_region.csv`.
> - `get_pf_medication_validation_data.R`: Extracts validation metrics for Pharmacy First prescribing to generate `validation/data/pf_medication_validation_data.csv`.
> - `load_opensafely_outputs.R`: Loads and parses output files generated by OpenSAFELY for analysis, using outputs from either the `/output` directory or `/released_output` directory (both in .gitignore).
> - `load_validation_data.R`: Processing the `/data` csv's to tailor for analyses
> - `plot_measures.R`: Contains graphing function.
> - `tidy_measures.R`: Cleans and standardises OpenSAFELY measure files to long format suitable for visualisation, and adds labels for measure names.

Reviewer: I think it would be clearer if we had more descripitve titles for the subsections here. I'd add the full path for each file and not have it in the heading (although it is a duplication) see what u think

```suggestion
## Data files for validation and medication lookups

- `reference/vmp_vtm_lookup.csv`: Maps Virtual Medicinal Product codes (VMPs) to Virtual Therapeutic Moiety codes (VTMs) to support aggregated prescribing analysis.
- `validation/data/pf_consultation_validation_data.csv`: Validation data taken from NHS BSA containing Pharmacy First consultation counts by condition.
- `validation/data/pf_consultation_validation_data_by_region.csv`: Validation data taken from NHS BSA containing Pharmacy First consultation counts by condition and by region.
- `validation/data/pf_medication_validation_data.csv`: Validation data taken from NHS BSA containing counts of Medication prescribed in Pharmacy First clinical pathways.

## Reusable functions for creating results and getting comparison data

- `combine_os_nhsbsa_validation_data.R`: Combines data from OpenSAFELY and NHSBSA for cross-validation of consultation and prescribing metrics.
- `create_tables.R`: Contains functions to generate formatted tables for `create_results_manuscript.Rmd` and `pharmacy_first_report.Rmd`.
- `get_pf_consultation_validation_data.R`: Extracts validation metrics for Pharmacy First consultations to generate `validation/data/pf_consultation_validation_data.csv` and `validation/data/pf_consultation_validation_data_by_region.csv`.
- `get_pf_medication_validation_data.R`: Extracts validation metrics for Pharmacy First prescribing to generate `validation/data/pf_medication_validation_data.csv`.
- `load_opensafely_outputs.R`: Loads and parses output files generated by OpenSAFELY for analysis, using outputs from either the `/output` directory or `/released_output` directory (both in .gitignore).
- `load_validation_data.R`: Processing the `/data` csv's to tailor for analyses
- `plot_measures.R`: Contains graphing function.
- `tidy_measures.R`: Cleans and standardises OpenSAFELY measure files to long format suitable for visualisation, and adds labels for measure names.
```

---

> ## Reports (`reports/`)
> 
> - `pharmacy_first_report.Rmd`: R Markdown file to create pharmacy first dashboard.
> - `create_results_manuscript.Rmd`: Compiles main manuscript results in publication-ready format.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## RMarkdown reports

- `reports/pharmacy_first_report.Rmd`: R Markdown file to create pharmacy first dashboard.
- `reports/create_results_manuscript.Rmd`: Compiles main manuscript results in publication-ready format.
```

> ---

Reviewer: dont think we need the extra line breaks here?
```suggestion
```

The content has ONLY been made public to support the OpenSAFELY [open science and transparency principles](https://www.opensafely.org/about/#contributing-to-best-practice-around-open-science) and to support the sharing of re-usable code for other subsequent users.
No clinical, policy or safety conclusions must be drawn from the contents of this repository.

## Repository Structure

```

> ├── analysis/               # Study definitions, config, analysis scripts
> ├── codelists/              # Clinical code lists
> ├── docs/                   # Project-level documentation
> ├── dummy_data/             # Synthetic data for testing
> ├── dummy_tables/           # Dummy tables for development
> ├── lib/                    # Shared lookups, functions, and validation
> ├── logs/                   # Output logs
> ├── output/                 # Analysis outputs (excluded via .gitignore)
> ├── renv/                   # R environment management
> ├── reports/                # RMarkdown scripts for tables/reports
> ├── project.yaml            # Study definition file for OpenSAFELY framework

Reviewer: Some suggestions for improving consistency and clarity

```suggestion
├── analysis/               # Study and measures definitions and analyses
├── codelists/              # Clinical code lists
├── docs/                   # Project-level documentation
├── dummy_data/             # Dummy data for local development and testing
├── dummy_tables/           # Dummy tables for local development and testing
├── lib/                    # Library with functions for getting comparison data
├── logs/                   # Logs of actions, excluded via .gitignore
├── output/                 # Analysis outputs, excluded via .gitignore
├── renv/                   # R environment management, excluded via .gitignore
├── reports/                # RMarkdown scripts for tables/reports
├── project.yaml            # Study definition file for OpenSAFELY framework
```

```

> ## Key Analysis Files (`analysis/`)
> 
> | File | Purpose |
> |------|---------|
> | `codelists.py` | Loads relevant codelists from the `codelists/` folder and assigns labels to SNOMED codes. |
> | `config.py` | Contains centralised start dates and interval settings for dataset and measure scripts across the project. |
> | `create_tables.R` | Script which uses the output produced by `dataset_definition_tables.py` to generate a demographics table and clinical conditions tables (by sex and imd) |
> | `dataset_definition_tables.py` | Defines the study population and variables to generate demographics of the population |
> | `measures_definition_pf_breakdown.py` | Specifies OpenSAFELY measures for overall Pharmacy First consultation counts and Pharmacy First consultation counts by pharmacy first condition. |
> | `measures_definition_pf_condition_provider.py` | Tracks prescribing activity by provider (GP vs OpenSAFELY) and condition. |
> | `measures_definition_pf_descriptive_stats.py` | Generates descriptive statistics for the study population, including completeness of Pharmacy First consultations. |
> | `measures_definition_pf_med_counts.py` | Defines measures to calculate medication-specific prescribing counts under the Pharmacy First service. |
> | `pf_dataset.py` | Contains functions which are called in `dataset_definition_tables.py` that allows for variables such as IMD, ethnicity and age band to be retrieved. |
> | `pf_variables_library.py` | Contains reusable event selection and filtering functions to build variables dynamically in other scripts |
> | `test_dataset_definition_tables.py` | Unit tests for checking table generation logic and structure. |
> | `tidy_measures_med_counts.R` | R script to process and tidy the output of `measures_definition_pf_med_counts.py` for reporting. |
> 
> ---

Reviewer: the description of the files is really good! we should keep the content. all the tables made me wonder if it would be easier to read this as a simple bullet point list and also take up less space of the readme file? have a look and see what you think

```suggestion
## Overview of ehrQL and analysis scripts

- `analysis/codelists.py`: Loads relevant codelists from the `codelists/` folder and assigns labels to SNOMED codes.
| `analysis/config.py`: Contains centralised start dates and interval settings for dataset and measure scripts across the project.
- `analysis/create_tables.R`: Script which uses the output produced by `dataset_definition_tables.py` to generate a demographics table and clinical conditions tables (by sex and imd)
- `analysis/dataset_definition_tables.py`: Defines the study population and variables to generate demographics of the population
- `analysis/measures_definition_pf_breakdown.py`: Specifies OpenSAFELY measures for overall Pharmacy First consultation counts and Pharmacy First consultation counts by pharmacy first condition.
- `analysis/measures_definition_pf_condition_provider.py`: Tracks prescribing activity by provider (GP vs OpenSAFELY) and condition.
- `analysis/measures_definition_pf_descriptive_stats.py`: Generates descriptive statistics for the study population, including completeness of Pharmacy First consultations.
- `analysis/measures_definition_pf_med_counts.py`: Defines measures to calculate medication-specific prescribing counts under the Pharmacy First service.
- `analysis/pf_dataset.py`: Contains functions which are called in `dataset_definition_tables.py` that allows for variables such as IMD, ethnicity and age band to be retrieved.
- `analysis/pf_variables_library.py`: Contains reusable event selection and filtering functions to build variables dynamically in other scripts
- `test_dataset_definition_tables.py`: Unit tests for checking table generation logic and structure.
- `analysis/tidy_measures_med_counts.R`: R script to process and tidy the output of `measures_definition_pf_med_counts.py` for reporting.
```

## Key Library Files (`lib/`)

| File | Purpose |
|------|---------|
| `reference/vmp_vtm_lookup.csv` | Maps Virtual Medicinal Product codes (VMPs) to Virtual Therapeutic Moiety codes (VTMs) to support aggregated prescribing analysis. |
| `validation/data/pf_consultation_validation_data.csv` | Validation data taken from NHS BSA containing Pharmacy First consultation counts by condition. |
| `validation/data/pf_consultation_validation_data_by_region.csv` | Validation data taken from NHS BSA containing Pharmacy First consultation counts by condition and by region. |
| `validation/data/pf_medication_validation_data.csv` | Validation data taken from NHS BSA containing counts of Medication prescribed in Pharmacy First clinical pathways. |

---

> ## Library Functions (`lib/functions/`)

Reviewer: maybe all the library functions could come under the same heading?

| `get_pf_consultation_validation_data.R` | Extracts validation metrics for Pharmacy First consultations to generate `validation/data/pf_consultation_validation_data.csv` and `validation/data/pf_consultation_validation_data_by_region.csv`. |
| `get_pf_medication_validation_data.R` | Extracts validation metrics for Pharmacy First prescribing to generate `validation/data/pf_medication_validation_data.csv`. |
| `load_opensafely_outputs.R` | Loads and parses output files generated by OpenSAFELY for analysis, using outputs from either the `/output` directory or `/released_output` directory (both in .gitignore). |
| `load_validation_data.R` | Processing the `/data` csv's to tailor for analyses |
| `plot_measures.R` | Contains graphing function. |
| `tidy_measures.R` | Cleans and standardises OpenSAFELY measure files to long format suitable for visualisation, and adds labels for measure names. |

---

## Reports (`reports/`)

| File | Purpose |
|------|---------|
| `pharmacy_first_report.Rmd` | R Markdown file to create pharmacy first dashboard. |
| `create_results_manuscript.Rmd` | Compiles main manuscript results in publication-ready format. |

> ---
> 
> ## Outputs
> 
> Files written to the `/output/` folder include:
> - CSV files of measures/population
> 
> Following successful request of outputs, outputs are released to us, and are saved in a `/released_output` folder. This folder contains:
> - Figures and tables (present in manuscript and dashboard)
> - CSV files of measures/population
> 
> > ⚠️ The `/released_output` folder will not appear, and the `/output` folder will appear empty as both are specified in `.gitignore` to prevent accidental commits of sensitive data.
> 
> ---

Reviewer: I think we could get away with not mentioning this? it's not specific to this repo but rather something opensafely specific?
```suggestion
```
